As the nineteen eighties begin, where does America stand? The United States finds itself knee-deep in paradox. Its economy is the most powerful productive system on earth. Its natural resources are still relatively abundant. Its citizens are the most educated and capable work force in history. Its open and mobile society is a magnet for oppressed people throughout the world. Its constitution is a proven design for the governance of a pluralistic community. Yet we are stumbling — uncertain of our purpose, unsure of our strengths, preoccupied with our differences. Our weaknesses, some real, some imagined, have begun to sap our confidence in ourselves and our capacities. A lack of foresight and an excess of evasion have compounded problems we should long since have addressed. Things have gotten out of control. Over a period of years our economy has not kept pace with the rising demands upon it or with mounting competition from abroad. Our dependence on foreign oil has become a crippling vulnerability, shifting hundreds of billions of dollars abroad, stimulating inflation at home, and hamstringing our foreign policy. Our national security has eroded in the face of a relentless military buildup by the Soviet Union and the emergence of threats to American interests less susceptible to traditional military responses. Our standing in the world has declined, among allies whose cooperation we need for an effective international policy, as well as among other nations whose good will and trade we value and whose development we wish to assist. Our society has suffered shocks to its public and private institutions, to its quality of life, and to that sense of community which can flow only from the pursuit of common purposes. Our federal system is buffeted by conflicting claims and swelling responsibilities of national, state and local authorities, and relations between the legislative and executive branches careen periodically toward calamity. If America is to cope with these challenges, we must marshal our human and material resources far better than we have in recent years. In 1980 the over-riding issues are how we can do so and who is best prepared to lead the effort. No President can solve all the nation's problems, but the nation cannot manage them successfully without effective presidential leadership. Throughout the land there are grave doubts that either President Carter or Governor Reagan can devise a suitable program and provide the leadership to implement it. Our National Unity Campaign speaks both to Mr. Carter and to Mr. Reagan. To Mr. Carter, it says that a President must not only declare worthy goals; he must recognize the conflicts among competing goals and set a consistent course to prevent contradictions from rendering us impotent. The sad verdict is that Mr. Carter has failed; failed to rally the nation, the Congress, and our allies to a common standard; failed to fulfill his campaign commitments of 1976; failed to provide coherent and credible leadership. His own book of promises now stands as an indictment of his tenure. On the record no fair observer can conclude that Mr. Carter deserves another term — or that the nation should have to endure one. To Mr. Reagan, our campaign says that America will not trade inept management of complexity for doctrinaire assertions of simplicity. However frustrated Americans may be, they are too sensible to believe that relief from present difficulties can come without sacrifice. They recognize the implausibility of Mr. Reagan's claim that we can cut taxes massively, and increase defense spending enormously, and balance the budget quickly, and cure inflation permanently. They question whether the necessity to strengthen our defenses justifies abandoning diplomatic efforts to reduce the threats to our security. On the record, no one can be confident that Mr. Reagan offers the balanced judgement and vision which America has a right to expect of its president. Our National Unity Campaign responds to these concerns. We espouse a patriotism that is larger than partisanship. We seek to energize the political process by rejecting the Hobson's choice presented by the two major parties in 1980. We plan to tap the best ideas and talents of both parties, and to advance initiatives of our own to deal with the novel problems America faces in the late twentieth century. Above all, we hope to define the national interest in ways that enlist broad support among Americans. As a nation, we need to rise above the chronic political combat among special interests whose claims, though often worthy, must be subordinated to the common good. To strike such balances is the prime responsibility of the presidency. To suggest the priorities that should govern is the central objective of our campaign. The Anderson-Lucey campaign is based on a public philosophy that neither repeats nor repeals the past, but builds upon it. Its principles are clear and simple. America is in peril because her foundations have been neglected in the past generation. We must plan for the future, we must save for the future, and we must invest in it. We must rebuild America. For the most part, government cannot do this directly. Rather, it must act boldly to create a climate and a framework of incentives that encourage individuals and businesses to get to work at the task of rebuilding. Each of us must share these burdens, lest they become unbearable for all. And we must apportion the sacrifices necessary for national recovery with fair regard for the ability of individuals and groups to bear them. The rebuilding of America cannot succeed unless we are united; but we cannot remain united unless we persevere in establishing justice for all Americans. More than ever before in peacetime, America must identify the essential tasks before it and focus its energies on them. What are these tasks? We perceive three of them, around which many important objectives revolve; To restore economic vitality To meet human needs and secure social justice To maintain national security and international cooperation. To restore the vitality of the American economy will be neither simple nor easy; we deceive ourselves to think otherwise. In launching the effort, the last thing America needs is a political campaign which exaggerates the differences among us. Republican and Democratic rhetoric leads in that direction. We should reject it and build upon the common ground that unites our citizens. We perceive a latent consensus among the American people. Americans agree that inflation must be curbed or the United States will be permanently weakened. In recent years, even when the overall inflation rate (as measured by the Consumer Price Index) has declined, the underlying inflation built into the costs of goods and services has remained high. For example, when the CPI rate fell below 6% in 1975-76, the underlying rate remained at nearly 8%. This almost guarantees that each recovery will spawn a new surge in prices, as producers try to meet demand while recovering their increased costs of labor and capital. All Americans are fatigued by a tail-chasing game that has gone on too long. Americans agree that, to overcome this chronic threat to economic stability, we must improve productivity through investment in new plant, equipment and infrastructure. The massive investment required dictates a high priority to increasing the rate of capital formation through reversing the drastic drop in savings, increasing the capacity and incentives for business to invest, and restraining the claims of the public sector. Americans agree that the principal avenue to solving the grim problem of unemployment is investment to create and sustain jobs, either by launching new industries or by revitalizing old ones. Rising competition from other countries makes this objective at once more difficult and more urgent. The only real protection against such foreign competition lies in strengthening our own ability to compete effectively. Yet there is a proper demand that government use its influence to promote fair international competition and that, when necessary, transitional arrangements permit American firms and workers to adjust to changing markets. Americans agree that expanding jobs in the private sector is preferable to a bloated government payroll. The virtues of free enterprise still prevail and most Americans do not wish government to collect and allocate an ever-growing share of the nation's wealth. Yet, while restraining the growth of government spending, there is a clear public obligation to cushion the burdens a turbulent economy imposes on those least able to bear them — the jobless, the elderly, the poor. In steering the nation onto a path of noninflationary growth, government must improve its performance in helping to train and place the unemployed. Americans agree that the global energy crisis threatens to undermine our best efforts to restore a sound economy. Our country's dependence on foreign oil, though less than that of our allies, compounds inflationary pressures and poses an obvious peril to our security. Yet other nations have shown the way to prosperous and less inflationary economies with much lower levels of per capita energy consumption. To achieve such growth will require us to wring energy waste out of the economy and to bring new energy sources into service. In order to meet these objectives, we need three kinds of measures. First, the Anderson-Lucey Administration will take immediate action on inflation and unemployment to counteract the economic dislocation and human distress produced by the Carter economic policies of the past four years. Although inflation, as measured by the consumer price index, has receded from the 18 percent rate recorded in the first quarter of 1980, the underlying inflation rate remains at historically high levels. A central focus of national economic policy must be a progressive, year-by-year reduction in the inflation rate until reasonable price stability is achieved. While fiscal and monetary restraint is essential to the achievement of price stability, we must also endeavor to reach a broader national accord on appropriate wage and price increases. We will construct a Wage-Price Incentives Program. Our administration will invite labor and management leaders to agree upon fair and realistic guidelines and to determine appropriate tax-based incentives to encourage compliance with those standards. By discouraging inflationary expectations, this wage-price incentives policy will be a key weapon in the campaign for stable economic growth. In the absence of sharp and prolonged increases in the rate of inflation, we will oppose mandatory wage and price standards. Experience has demonstrated that such controls are difficult to administer and result in misallocation of economic resources. A sound economic policy must incorporate a commitment to full employment. We reaffirm the goals of the Humphrey-Hawkins Act, and regret the President's failure to consult with Congress before altering the timetables set forth in that Act. The establishment and attainment of national economic objectives are the joint responsibility of the President and Congress. While America's full employment policy must focus on the creation and preservation of productive, private-sector jobs, there will be a continuing role for complementary federal programs to deal with chronic employment problems. We propose pilot projects to integrate state unemployment benefits with retraining benefits for those with long records of unemployment. To increase the effectiveness of the employment tax credit for small businesses, we will study the advisability of making the tax credit refundable. To deal with the critical problem of youth unemployment, particularly among minorities, we propose: enactment of the proposed Youth Act of 1980 to provide over $2 billion a year for job-training and state and local educational programs designed to improve the employability of disadvantaged and out-of-school youth; increased funding for youth career intern programs; a youth opportunity wage incentive that would exempt eligible youths and employers from social security taxes during the first months of employment; and a Youth Energy Projects Act that would provide up to $1 billion a year for multi-year energy and conservation projects, including mass transit, offering career opportunities for economically disadvantaged youth. We will work with educators and employers to smooth the transition from school to job. Second, the Anderson-Lucey Administration will undertake basic structural initiatives to create conditions for long-term economic growth with lower inflation and higher purchasing power. We will set a new balance between fiscal and monetary policy to dampen inflation, lower interest rates, and foster a predictable environment for long-range planning by investors and government alike. While declining tax revenues and increasing transfer payments can be expected to unbalance the budget during times of economic difficulty, the budget should move toward balance or surplus during expansionary periods. Once balance in the federal budget has been achieved, the Anderson-Lucey Administration will propose to index personal income tax brackets to prevent inflation from pushing taxpayers into higher tax brackets. As further economies are made in federal spending, we will propose tax cuts that go beyond the tax relief afforded by indexing. We will oppose any new Constitutional limitation on the spending and taxing powers of Congress. Reforms limiting government spending to an appropriate percentage of GNP should be enacted as amendments to the Congressional Budget Act. In the interest of more effective fiscal management, we will propose administrative procedures, subject to legislative veto, to meet changing economic conditions by (a) adjusting tax rates upward or downward by 10% or less and (b) accelerating or slowing certain federal expenditures. Timely and orderly action on these fronts can diminish the wasteful scramble of federal agencies to spend remaining funds in the closing days of each fiscal year. Such flexibility can also relieve the strain on monetary policy by permitting prompt fiscal intervention to counter adverse trends. We will use the tax code to encourage greater personal savings and capital formation. We must make it both possible and desirable for the average American to save again. Lowering the inflation rate will be a powerful stimulus to savings. Phasing out interest rate restrictions on savings accounts, recently approved by Congress, will also be an important stimulant. We should remove other disincentives to savings and investment from the tax code. We propose: expanding gradually the interest and dividend income exclusion to $750 individuals, $1500 for married couples filing jointly; liberalizing eligibility requirements and income limitations for Individual Retirement Accounts, particularly for homemakers; and instituting a further review of capital gains taxes. The current state of the economy and of our most basic industries, including automobiles and steel, requires adoption of added capital cost recovery measures to ensure that troubled companies and industries will not suffer a competitive tax disadvantage in undertaking capital expansion and improvements. To enable less profitable companies to modernize their plants and equipment, we will propose to make the investment tax credit refundable. To ensure adequate congressional review of this measure, we propose a three year limit on the refundability provision, subject to extension. We will use tax incentives and direct federal assistance to stimulate research and development and to spur productivity. To revive our flagging R&D effort, we propose a number of initiatives and improvements. An Anderson-Lucey Administration will seek to: reverse the decline in the real level of federal funding for research and development; provide a 10 percent investment tax credit for qualifying research and development expenditures; establish a federal program to re-equip the laboratories of universities, non-profit research centers, and government facilities redefine the working relationship between government and universities so as to avoid substituting paperwork for creativity; provide fixed objectives and more predictable project funding for scientists and engineers on the cutting edge of technology; establish regional technology centers under the aegis of the National Science Foundation and NASA to lower the costs of selling and licensing new technologies to private business; establish a more uniform patent policy for all federal agencies; require federal agencies to determine expeditiously whether they will retain patents on inventions developed by private contractors with federal monies; reorganize and increase the funding of the Patent and Trademark Office to improve its operations; explore the possibility of a separate patent court to reduce the time needed to establish a valid patent. We will prune regulations that waste capital and do not serve valid regulatory objectives. We will seek legislation that would: set an eight-year timetable for thorough congressional review of regulatory agencies; require the President to submit in the first session of each new Congress a regulatory reform plan for each of the regulatory agencies scheduled for review; require Congress to act on the regulatory reform plan by August 1st of the second session; assure congressional action by denying the affected agency power to promulgate new rules and regulations until Congress has acted. An Anderson-Lucey Administration will be firmly committed to the growth and maintenance of competition in our modern economy. We support recent efforts towards deregulation of the transportation industry, and we will support thorough review of antitrust and other federal laws affecting competition, We will use a tough, conservation-oriented energy program to curtail the rapid outflow of American capital to pay for imported oil. We will expand production of energy and induce conservation of energy through policies that are equitable, economical, environmentally and technologically sound. We would couple decontrol of oil and gas prices with an excise tax of 50 cents per gallon on gasoline, the full revenues of that tax being returned to individuals through reductions in payroll taxes and increased Social Security benefits. Gasoline prices will still remain well below those of other industrial nations. We will employ tax credits and other incentives to promote substitution of non-petroleum energy for oil, adoption of energy-efficient systems in industry and elsewhere, improvements in transportation and energy production technologies, and development of less wasteful structures for home and commerce. We will explore a wide range of energy supply options — from minihydropower to renewable resources to fusion -- to determine which are appropriate medium-term investments and which should be deferred or abandoned. We will emphasize environmental and safety controls as we explore wider use of coal through such techniques as liquefaction, gasification and fluidized bed combustion. We will propose financial concessions to construct rail, port and slurry pipeline facilities for expanded domestic and foreign trade in coal. In considering policy for nuclear power, we will act on the recommendations of the Rogovin and Kemeny Commissions to make certain that installation of any future plants is preceded by demonstration of satisfactory standards and action on the nuclear waste question. We will assess nuclear power in light of its dependence on public subsidy and of the possibility that slower growth in demand may enable us to phase in other energy supplies in preference to nuclear systems. We will accelerate the use of solar energy, particularly by using federal procurement to encourage uniform performance standards and economies of scale. We will devise suitable loan and credit mechanisms to stimulate residential and other applications. We will actively investigate the potential for renewable energy sources. Third, the Anderson-Lucey Administration will adopt a new industrial policy, specifically targeted to encourage the re-industrialization of the U.S. economy. We propose an industrial policy sensitive to the special needs of our basic industries: an Industrial Development Administration authorized to speed development of new technologies and cost-saving techniques by providing loan guarantees to industry; an Industrial Development Council, chaired by the President, will engage government, labor and management in a continuing review of government policies affecting industrial matters, in fostering closer relations between management and labor, and in encouraging American industry to adapt to the rapid changes in international economics, technology, and consumer preferences; liberalized depreciation allowances, refundable investment tax credit, and 10 percent R&D tax credits for the auto and steel industries. We propose policies designed to restore small business to its traditional role as a generator of new ideas and new jobs: allow small businesses to elect to write-off the first $50,000 in investments in equipment and machinery each year; provide simplified and liberalized depreciation allowances for capital equipment and structures; provide an investment tax credit for qualifying research and development expenditures; defer capital gains tax on the sale of a small business if the proceeds are reinvested in another qualified small business within six months; and reduce corporate tax rates by two percentage points across-the-board by 1986. Small businesses are often less suited or equipped to deal with federal regulatory requirements. Legislation should require federal agencies to consider the feasibility of less burdensome regulations for small businesses, providing they satisfy important safety and health standards. We propose policies designed to ensure that our transportation system can meet the demands of a changing economy. We must repair our nation's rail beds, maintain our highways, upgrade our port facilities, and update our air traffic control systems. We propose to revitalize our space program, an important source of technological innovation and economic progress. We propose measures to remove barriers to exports and to work aggressively to increase them: expanded, competitive U.S. Export-Import Bank financing of a broader range of exports; reduced taxation of American nationals living abroad and engaging in export activities; duty-free entry of machinery and materials for use in export manufacture in foreign trade zones; anti-trust immunity for certified export activities by business associations; measures to encourage formation of export trading companies to assist small and medium-sized firms; an Agricultural Export Credit Revolving Fund; renewed efforts to obtain international agreement on foreign business practices. We will strengthen our trade and our currency through increased international economic cooperation. To this end, we pledge: continued cooperation with our allies to achieve energy conservation and production targets set forth in the recent Venice Summit Agreement; closer cooperation among our trading partners to reduce frictions which, left unattended, could lead to arbitrary trade restrictions; more effective coordination of economic and financial policy among the leading industrialized nations through the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD); continued efforts to enhance the effectiveness of IMF exchange rate surveillance; expanded financial and technical assistance to non-OPEC developing countries in their efforts to explore and market new energy sources; support for a stable monetary order through refinement and extension of the Special Drawing Rights. We will not pursue the fantasy of a return to the gold standard, as contemplated by the Reagan platform. Finally, we must preserve and extend the gains working men and women have achieved in nearly a century of organization and struggle. We support a fair and equitable minimum wage that bears a consistent relation to the average manufacturing wage. We support the full and effective enforcement of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, and we oppose legislation now before the Congress that would drastically weaken OSHA. We support worker participation in determining the structure of the workplace. We support extension of job-retraining and relocation assistance for displaced workers. Economic Development Administration assistance to distressed communities, and adoption of work-sharing programs on a pilot-project basis. We oppose repeal of the Davis-Bacon Act of 1931. We support selective improvements in the National Labor Relations Act to guard further against unfair labor practices. A dynamic and growing economy is the necessary condition of social progress, of domestic harmony, and of national security. And only such an economy can allow all its citizens the basic freedom to choose and to pursue their own occupations. But economic health is not an end in itself. The worth of every society is determined by what its members do — as individuals and as citizens — with the wealth they create. We believe that a modern society must accept its responsibility to provide for basic human needs by furnishing those public goods citizens cannot attain through individual effort to care for its cities, its transportation, and its environment; to assist those who cannot support themselves; to create a climate within which human beings can strive to fulfill their own needs. To fulfill this responsibility, we will shape an adaptable government, responsive to its citizens and effective in its functions. The potential for institutional deadlock has grown acute and with it a dispiriting sense that little can be done to achieve our public goals. This we must overcome. We will launch an evolutionary effort to energize our political institutions and to adapt them to contemporary responsibilities. We will seek to establish a new and healthier equilibrium in the federal system. To examine the current condition of federal-state relations, we will assemble the constitutional partners in a Convocation on Federalism. This will not be a convention to act on constitutional amendments, as proposed by some state governments, but the Convocation will present recommendations to the President and Congress for statutory or constitutional change through normal legislative procedures. Among issues to be addressed will be ways to reverse the incessant trend toward centralization of government, to establish balance between public sector and private sector claims on national wealth, and t.o improve the conduct of programs which must be handled on an intergovernmental basis. In short, without running the risks associated with a plenary convention, the Convocation will permit a thorough assessment of the federal system and of the Constitution, as it completes its second century. Our goal will be an allocation of responsibility among federal, state and local government that is clear and efficient. Respecting the dual needs of executive initiative and legislative prerogative, the National Unity Administration will work closely with legislative leaders. To avoid the recurrent paralysis of legislative-executive relations, we will be prepared to consider far-reaching innovations, compatible with the separation of powers, to coordinate decision-making between the branches more effectively. We will discuss with the majority and minority leaders of both Houses whether they wish to take part in specified deliberations of the Cabinet and National Security Council, particularly those relating to international crises. Without abridging the President's right to privileged counsel, we will facilitate access of designated legislators to studies and analyses prepared for executive policy-making. Together with state and local authorities, we will mount a systematic campaign to rebuild America's cities. The deterioration of our massive investment in urban capital stock -- housing, roads, bridges, public transportation, sewers, water systems -- is the most serious problem now confronting the cities. Squeezed between declining tax bases and escalating costs, many cities have been forced to defer essential maintenance to meet immediate operating needs. To address this problem, an Anderson-Lucey Administration will propose an Urban Reinvestment Trust Fund (URTF). Funded through dedicated revenues from the federal alcohol and tobacco excise taxes and phased in over three years, it will disburse approximately $3.9 billion annually. It will be used for upgrading, repair and replacement of capital plant and equipment. Because the revenues from the federal excise taxes on alcohol and tobacco have been rising more slowly than the rate of inflation, at the end of the phase-in period we will consider raising current excise tax rates to meet the urgent national needs to which our Trust Fund is addressed. We face a looming crisis in housing. Construction has dropped below the level at which new families are being formed and economic and regulatory constraints have virtually shut down the multifamily housing industry. We propose: to reduce interest rates by stabilizing the economy to dampen the erratic housing cycle through a countercyclical mortgage subsidy program to work for simplification and standardization of federal, state, and,local building regulations to stimulate private construction of multifamily housing, through increased interest rate subsidies and tax incentives, including accelerated depreciation to accelerate renovation of existing housing stock to encourage conversion of abandoned buildings from other uses to housing to encourage low-income families to buy their own dwellings through federal mortgage guarantees to increase the supply of mortgage funds by policies to expand personal savings. A healthy city requires vigorous and thriving neighborhoods, secure in their differences, linked by common interests and purposes. For too long, federal policy has damaged neighborhood interests while neglecting programs that directly benefit neighborhoods. We will review and, where appropriate, implement the recommendations of the largely ignored report of the National Commission on Neighborhoods. We will support neighborhood associations through tax credits, federal matching money, and increased funding for federal programs that work directly with local groups. We will use the Small Business Administration and the Urban Development Action Grants to promote economic development in neighborhoods. We will make federal policy more responsive to the plight of displaced urban dwellers. Within our distressed older cities, there are zones of devastation, blighted by crime, arson, and population flight. The traditional tools of federal policy do not work, and cannot be expected to work, in these areas. We favor legislation that would create "enterprise zones" in these areas, by lowering corporate, capital gains, payroll, and property taxes and by furnishing new tax incentives to small businesses. We will work to transform America's surface transportation network. Through years of neglect, profligate energy consumption, and lack of federal leadership, the United States has slid into a dependence on imported oil that threatens our economic viability and our national security. Transportation consumes half the petroleum used in this country. It is in this sector that we must effect the greatest economies. To promote a balanced, cost-effective, energy-efficient transportation system; We should establish a new Community Transportation Trust Fund to finance capital and maintenance costs of metropolitan and local transit systems, while general revenues would finance operating costs. Funded with dedicated revenues from the federal alcohol and tobacco excise taxes, it would disburse $15 billion over the next five years, $2.5. billion in the first year. After suitable consultation with states and communities, the federal government should establish a twenty-year community transportation plan that lays out goals and funding priorities. We should use tax incentives and selective subsidies to encourage the participation of the private sector in public transportation and to encourage the development of transportation alternatives for rural Americans. We will implement a national railroad policy to catalyse the development of versatile, competitive and attractive freight and passenger services. This policy will give due weight to related policies on energy, agriculture and industry. While affording reasonable protection to shippers captive to rail transportation, we will move to end anachronistic regulations and place increased reliance on market forces to determine railroad pricing and operating practices. Our administration will participate actively in efforts to upgrade the nation's dilapidated roadbeds and antiquated transfer facilities. We will consider equitable user charges for transportation modes benefiting from public subsidies in order to assure a less distorted and more competitive market for freight services. We will construct an environmental policy that seasons idealism with realism and mobilizes Americans to combine restrained development with constant vigilance for the preservation of our natural assets — land, air and water. The fragility of our environment must evoke frugality in our stewardship of America. We embrace the spirit of idealism and farsightedness that has enabled the environmental movement to flourish over several decades. We will guard and consolidate the achievements in every field of environmental protection and preservation. While mindful of the need to assess the economic impact of proposed environmental safeguards, we reaffirm our long-standing commitment to protecting our resources against pollution and depletion. In addition to aggressive implementation of existing programs to protect air and water resources, we will launch new efforts to deal with safe disposal of toxic substances, with problems of acid rain and air-borne carbon dioxide, and with the detection and control of likely cancer-causing substances. We will undertake a broad range of policies to protect our wildlife, our public lands, our coastal zones and international environments like the ocean. We will ensure that federal water projects respect environmental concerns. The complex and delicate relationship between energy and environmental policy necessitates constant surveillance. Conservation is the essential link between them. While all energy options require environmental safeguards, the distinctive aspects of nuclear power give urgency to the establishment of a Nuclear Regulatory Authority under a single administrator to assure the operational and environmental safety of reactors, fuel handling and waste disposal. We will strive to improve the health of Americans by closing the gaps in our health care system and by promoting more effective delivery of services without inducing exorbitant inflation in their cost. These are familiar goals and the nation's failures to achieve them are equally well-known. We must prevent public policy from impeding a more competitive and cost-conscious market for health services. We would phase out retroactive cost-plus reimbursement under federal programs and replace it with prospective rate or fixed-premium financing, in order to give incentives to contain costs. Such a change should reduce the expensive cost-accounting and reporting practices now borne by hospitals, nursing homes and other agencies. We will take steps to allow Health Maintenance Organizations and other prepaid insurance options to compete for the federal health care dollar. We will analyze cost-sharing procedures to deter over-utilization and wasteful treatment under Medicare and Medicaid. To spur competition in the private sector we will recommend making health insurance payments (including catastrophic coverage) by employers tax deductible only if they offer multiple options/which permit employees to choose the most cost-efficient plan for their individual circumstances. We will ground health policy in the existing private structure, gradually augmenting present coverage to reach the twenty-two million Americans who are now unprotected. An important mechanism to bring professional care to areas which are inadequately served is the National Health Service Corps, which we will enlarge. We will act to correct the under-emphasis on preventive medicine and health research — which now accounts for only 2% of total health care expenditures. We will give close attention to disseminating the results of research on the health implications of lifestyle, diet and environmental factors. Programs to prevent and treat problems of drug abuse; alcoholism and mental health are increasingly important in contemporary society; we will sustain them. We propose to rationalize the welfare system and to meet the changing requirements of families and individuals in need. We will improve administration of the principal welfare programs -- Aid for Dependent Children (AFDC), Supplemental Security Income (SSI), Medicaid and Food Stamps — and will consider the possibility of uniform application procedures for them. We support a national minimum benefit standard and uniform eligibility requirements for AFDC. To avoid further weakening of families in dire need, we advocate mandatory AFDC coverage of two-parent families in the 24 states now lacking it. There should be standard procedures for periodic determination of income and eligibility, as well as expansion of the National Recipient System (NRS) to eliminate erroneous payments. Even with administrative improvements, the income transfers made by these programs are near their practical limits. We must place greater stress on earned income for the disadvantaged by reducing the marginal tax on entry of poor workers into the labor force. We propose a standardized benefit reduction formula to assure higher real income for welfare recipients who obtain work. We would expand the Earned Income Tax Credit to increase incentives for the working poor and to increase their ability to accumulate savings. We favor expansion of day care facilities for the children of these families. The welfare of our people depends on far more than the welfare system. It also requires sturdy families able to cope with the stress of modern life. We would bolster the family's economic base by ending the so-called "marriage tax" on two-earner families and inheritance or gift taxes on transfers between spouses. We support authority for homemakers to establish Individual Retirement Accounts and programs to assist displaced homemakers. We favor added tax relief for families providing home care for relatives who would otherwise be institutionalized. With a growing population of older Americans — of whom nine million live in poverty — we must also focus policy on their needs. While working to reduce inflation as the key to durable economic relief for all citizens, we will retain adequate indexation for Social Security benefits and resist their taxation. We will also encourage the ablebodied elderly to enjoy the financial and emotional benefits of work by phasing out limits on earnings for Social Security recipients and strengthening the Age Discrimination in Employment Act. A major objective will be to curtail unnecessary institutionalization by supporting arrangements which enable the elderly to remain in the community. Among other measures, we recommend broader health care coverage to aid persons or families who incur huge medical expenses while caring for the elderly at home or outside hospitals adult day care centers to aid those for whom overnight and weekend care is available at home "respite services" to assure families that elderly members will be cared for competently during vacations and other absences. Making it possible for the elderly to remain in the home and neighborhood can produce substantial savings to provide increased funding for those truly in need of long-term institutional care. Another group of Americans, young and old, deserves more help from government. They are the 30 million veterans of our armed forces. The shortcomings of the Veterans Administration demand correction. The physical and psychological traumas inflicted by the war in Southeast Asia require the succour of a caring nation. Our programs will focus on the disproportionate unemployment and readjustment problems suffered by Vietnam veterans. We would extend educational benefits for these veterans, and permit such entitlements to be used as reimbursements to employers for wages and other training expenses related to jobs for eligible veterans. We will step up personal counselling services for Vietnam veterans and will conduct a major outreach program to contact and assist victims of Agent Orange or other contaminants used in the war. We will dedicate ample resources to the manifold missions of education. To break down communications barriers among federal, state and local educational officials, and to provide supplemental aid to hard pressed local school districts, we will provide substantial funding to the Department of Education — a worthwhile innovation which will require active and sensitive direction. The virtues of diversity in education warrant federal deference for wide latitude in local school policies, and we will press the Department to cut back the thicket of regulations, subject only to monitoring federally mandated programs and accountability for federal funding. We will frame executive orders to govern future regulations. We will defer to self-regulation by states or school districts except when it proves demonstrably unsuccessful or incompatible with overriding federal interests. At,the same time we will uphold by all means at the government's disposal the right of every child to an equal educational opportunity. A continuing goal will be to advance the education of handicapped children, including opportunities to learn vocations conducive to productive and self-directed lives. We will place emphasis on linking special education programs for the handicapped to affirmative action efforts by private employers. The Department of Education will intensify its activities in behalf of disabled children in poorer districts, and work to overcome the present shortage of special education teachers generally. Taking account of the changing demography of education at all levels, we will encourage diversification of schools and colleges into adult and continuing education programs for people of all ages who are eager to enlarge their knowledge and skills. We will strive to bring coherence and adequate resources to the varied programs of federal financial aid to students in higher education. "Learn awhile to serve" reads an English school motto. That is but one worthy goal of learning. Knowledge and skill are economic tools but they are also instruments for personal fulfillment. We will strive to make them accessible to all with the capacity and determination to learn. We will marshal increased support for the arts and humanities. A difficult mission for government lies in the support of the arts and humanities -- creative endeavors whose justification rests on artistic and scholarly grounds rather than on the pragmatic reasons associated with science and technology. Fostering an environment in which art and the humanities can flourish with significant public funding but without unwarranted public control is a challenge we have begun to meet. We will support the principal federal institutions for these purposes, the National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities, and will try to protect these valuable programs against the ravages of inflation and budget cuts. We favor the creation of a National Arts Bank to purchase and lease for exhibition works of American art. We will encourage wider use of tax credits available to individuals and corporations contributing to the arts. We will investigate additional improvements in copyright and patent laws to guarantee fair compensation to artists. We will also lend our endorsement to the proposed Artists Tax Equity Act to facilitate donations of works of art to public institutions and to eliminate unfair taxation of artists and their heirs. These material measures can help the artistic spirit thrive in communities throughout America. We will erect a government devoted to ending discrimination and advancing justice for every person in our society. An important goal on the social agenda will be to bring women into full partnership in all our institutions. We are committed to ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment. We oppose government intrusion in the most intimate of family decisions — the right to bear or not to bear children -- and will fight against any constitutional amendment prohibiting abortion. We support public funding of family planning services and other efforts to enable women to find acceptable alternatives to abortion. Women will hold responsible positions in every department of our administration. We will be diligent in enforcement of affirmative action programs and other measures to assure equal protection of the laws for minorities and other victims of discrimination. Vigorous administration and stronger enforcement provisions for federal Fair Housing legislation will be crucial as the nation strives to surmount its serious housing shortage. The ability to read is indispensable to meaningful opportunity in America; we will direct the Department of Education to attack the massive problem of functional illiteracy, from which an estimated 20 million adults suffer. We will strengthen our commitment to bilingual education and provide appropriate assistance to local authorities for development of responsive and effective bilingual education programs. We advocate reaffirmation of the nation's democratic principles by fair and equal representation in Congress for the citizens of the District of Columbia. Fundamental questions of justice hinge on the reform of the U.S. Criminal Code. Our first objective will be to prevent crime and to protect its victims. We also favor a cautious and deliberate approach to the sensitive issues of civil liberty involved in such reform. Intricate issues arise, for example, in attempting to frame systematic principles for sentencing convicted offenders and for plea bargaining. Out of respect both for the constitutional ban on double jeopardy and for the need to avoid coercion in plea bargaining, we oppose giving prosecutors the right to appeal a sentence. Reform should correct disparities in sentencing and promote guidelines for the use of fines, community service orders and restitution in preference to incarceration in appropriate cases. Law enforcement is principally a state and local function, but we will act firmly to fulfill federal responsibilities, including protection of individuals against policy brutality. We will reinforce the capacity of the Community Relations Service to deal with local tensions. Prison reform looms large among the challenges of the coming decade and we will take steps to relieve overcrowding and abuses in the prisons, as well as to increase the range of opportunities for inmate work release programs, and other rehabilitative efforts. Concern over the treatment and status of immigrants joins our domestic and international policy. We will seek humane solutions to the dilemmas arising in this field, by extending civil rights protection to aliens and by negotiating actively with Mexico and other nations to devise satisfactory international arrangements regarding illegal aliens. In appointments to executive and judicial offices, we will steadfastly oppose the application of ideological "litmus tests" and adhere strictly to standards of qualification, competence, and equal opportunity for women and minorities. To diminish the recurrent conflicts of loyalty to which recent Attorneys General have been subject, we will underscore the Attorney General's obligations to the courts by consulting with the Judicial Conference of the United States prior to submitting any nomination for that office. On issues of foreign policy and national security, as on the economy, we must find areas of consensus on which the United States can build sound policy. The first priority for American foreign policy must be to rebuild our domestic strength — the bedrock of our international posture. The next priority for American foreign policy is to restore and nurture our historic alliances. Most Americans agree that the continuing growth of both Soviet strategic and conventional forces requires the United States to strengthen its defenses. We agree that it is essential to recruit and retain capable men and women to serve in our armed forces — and that to do so without resorting to conscription will demand substantially greater pay and benefits for volunteers . We agree that beyond the Soviet-American rivalry lie new threats to our vital interests -- threats arising from technological change and the possible spread of nuclear weapons, from the potentially explosive competition for resources in an age of global interddpendence, from unchecked racism and over-zealous nationalism, from famine and widespread disease. And we agree that mutual, verifiable and realistic arms limitations can contribute to our security. Meeting these challenges successfully will tax America's wisdom even more than its material wealth. What do we propose? In strategic forces, we will maintain a stable balance by preserving essential equivalence with the Soviet Union. To meet an evolving threat to our deterrent we will modernize and diversify our strategic arsenal. Specifically, we will take the following steps: Our military command, control and communications systems should be made as survivable as our strategic weapons systems. Our warning systems must be improved, as well as our ability to analyze data and make decisions under war-time conditions. We will improve the basing systems for our aircraft and fleet ballistic missiles. We will move ahead with the current Trident submarine program. We should continue research into other missile-carrying submarines, as additional means for enhancing our deterrent capabilities in the face of changing Soviet anti-submarine warfare capabilities. We will continue modernization of the B-52 with air-launched cruise missiles, short-range attack missiles, and with improved navigational and other electronic systems. We will continue research on new bomber forces, including those capable of launching cruise missiles. The growing concern over the threat to fixed, land-based missiles poses an urgent problem to both the United States and the Soviet Union. Economically, environmentally, and strategically, the specific cure proposed by the Carter administration — the MX system — is unsound. The fundamental question posed by the growing vulnerability of our land-based missiles is what comprises the most desirable mix of forces as the American arsenal is modernized in the 1980's. Should we preserve the three main components of our strategic forces, land-based missiles, bombers, and submarines? Or, as we move into the future, should we place greater reliance on bomber and submarine forces? A possible solution would be negotiations with the Soviet Union that verifiably reduced the capacity of each party to threaten the other's land-based missiles. Unfortunately, the Soviets have so far rejected such negotiations. We must make clear to them that their intransigence is forcing us to consider options which may severely impair strategic stability. The Anderson-Lucey Administration will give this matter the fresh-and sob consideration it deserves through a comprehensive assessment of strategic doctrines, capabilities, and choices, free from either ideology or illusion. American ingenuity can devise a more flexible and more cost-effective solution to the threat posed to our land-based missiles. For the past five administrations. Democrat and Republican, our nuclear strategy has been based on the principle of deterrence. Our principal objective is not to wage nuclear war, but to prevent it. The Anderson-Lucey Administration will unambiguously reaffirm this traditional strategy. We hold fast to the conviction that control of s nuclear war is improbable, and that victory in nuclear war is meaningless. For, as Douglas MacArthur said, "If you lose, you are annihilated. If you win, you stand only to lose." The National Unity Administration will emphasize versatile and usable forces to counter any conventional attack on our vital interests. Our first priority here will be to redress the grave personnel problems of the armed forces. We oppose peacetime conscription, but to make the volunteer army work will require additional funds for military pay and benefits. We will support both performance and reenlistment bonuses, as well as other measures to ensure retention of those with critical skills. We will take steps to rectify the serious shortcomings in military housing and social services. We will offer new educational incentives to aid recruitment. To attract more qualified personnel, we will encourage lateral entry in selected categories for both enlisted and officer ranks; to retain them we will eliminate the "up or out" policy on promotions and permit skilled individuals to remain on active duty outside the normal promotion path. Improved retention should make possible substantial savings in training budgets to help offset the costs of these personnel policies. Beyond strengthening our military manpower base, we will stress improved force readiness through increased operations and maintenance funding. We will press for further improvements in the "tooth-to-tail" ratio. To facilitate more rapid action in Europe and other critical areas we will expand programs to pre-position equipment overseas and to increase U.S. air and sealift capabilities. In guiding weapons design and procurement, our policy will be to demand a better balance between advancing technology and producing in quantity; we need more weapons with adequate capability and high reliability, rather than fewer weapons with excess capability and low reliability. To guarantee our ability to operate on a global scale, we will allocate more resources to naval forces, including those needed for operations in the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean. We will invigorate the international quest for arms control. Our policy will be based on the fundamental principles: Arms control agreements must enhance our basic security and must not compromise our ability to protect our national interests. Agreements must preserve and reinforce the stability of the strategic balance. Arms control agreements, particularly with the Soviet Union, are not agreements between friends. We cannot rely on the good intentions or paper promises of our adversaries. Arms control must be based on adequate, effective verification. The Anderson-Lucey Administration will take steps to complete the SALT II process, and thereby lay the groundwork for SALT III. The Western Alliance should proceed with its plans to modernize its theater nuclear arsenal; at the same time, we should keep open the possibility of negotiations with the Soviet Union to limit theater nuclear forces. Our administration will support efforts to negotiate a ban on the development, testing, and deployment of anti-satellite warfare systems. Until, however, the Soviet Union shows a willingness to enter serious negotiations in this area, we should continue research on an anti-satellite capability. We favor conclusion of a short-term comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty between the United States, the Soviet Union, and the United Kingdom, with frequent review pending inclusion of all nuclear weapons states. This will be a valuable element in the firm policy we will conduct to discourage proliferation of nuclear weapons. Our anti-proliferation policy will devote particular attention to limiting the number of facilities which use or produce plutonium or weapons-grade uranium. The United States must maintain a basic program of nuclear energy research and development if we are to retain our command of the broad range of nuclear activities relevant to the problems of nuclear weapons proliferation. We will use every technological and managerial tool at our disposal to increase still.further the distance between the military and peaceful uses of nuclear energy. In addition, we believe that exports of nuclear technology should only be approved by the United States in instances where the proposed transfer comports with non-proliferation goals. For a more effective defense, we will rely heavily on collective security arrangements with our principal allies in NATO and Japan. Unlike the Soviet Union, the United States enjoys the support of willing allies, not reluctant satellites. To strengthen deterrence of war in Europe, we will consider ways to reinforce NATO against potential Warsaw Pact attacks, including the organization of reserve forces for combat use in the early stages of conflict. We will work to upgrade the quality, standardization and interoperability of alliance weapons and equipment, and to provide ample war reserve stocks in Europe. We will refine joint arrangements to expand airlift capacity by suitable alterations and command arrangements for widebodied aircraft in allied civil fleets. We will also look to our allies to share the burden of defending Western interests in such regions as the Persian Gulf, either directly or through flexible arrangements for employment of American forces assigned to NATO and the Far East. We believe Japan should assume a security role appropriate to its situation and commensurate with its capacity. Given Japan's substantial shipbuilding assets, this role could well include contributions to sealift and anti-submarine warfare capabilities. An alliance of equal partners, proceeding with mutual concern and genuine consultation, can make "division of labor" more than just a slogan. We are dedicated to a reinvigorated partnership with our democratic allies. With it. Western civilization can confront the dangers and the challenges of the world from a position of calm but unquestioned strength and courage. Our diplomacy is a key to our security. We must be prepared to confront challenges to our basic interests around the globe with an active and forward diplomatic effort. We will work to reinforce and enhance our historic partnership with our Western European allies. To many, the ills of the Alliance are beyond cure. But we have a unique opportunity to extend the fundamental partnership which has been such a source of strength for the free world for the past thirty years. If the Alliance was important to our world position in 1949, when America's power was at its zenith, it is even more so today as we face even greater challenges around the world. To bolster our Atlantic partnership in the next decade, we need a clear sense of the basic principles which should guide our efforts. First among these broad principles is the recognition that apart from deterring a physical attack upon the United States itself, there is no more important national interest than the maintenance of our Alliance with Western Europe. Second, we must recognize that the Alliance must be a union of equal partners. Third, we must be prepared to acknowledge that there will be times when European interests are not those embraced by the United States. A mature and balanced partnership can accommodate differences of opinion or approach. Fourth, the United States must cease talking about consultation and actually consult with its allies before embarking on ventures in which it expects them to participate. Reciprocally, our allies must acknowledge a similar responsibility. The National Unity Administration will give priority to stabilizing the critical relationship with the Soviet Union. We will maintain and reinforce the military balance. We will support international efforts to end Soviet aggression in Afghanistan. We will adopt measures to deter or counter Soviet intervention, whether direct or through proxies, in areas vital to our interests, including specifically the Persian Gulf. The superpower relationship is central to world peace and neither side can allow it to degenerate further. Recent developments — the SALT deadlock, Afghanistan, rising military competition — have rendered the limited working relationship between Washington and Moscow more limited than working. Particularly when tensions are high, it is incumbent on the United States and the Soviet Union to maintain active communications. That will be our policy. A realistic relationship will demand that both sides act on their vested interest in mutual restraint. The Strategic Arms Limitations process is a valuable means of testing and defining mutual acceptance of that fact and we will take steps to revive that process. Specifically, we will propose to Moscow supplementary measures that could make possible the ratification of the SALT II Treaty and the start of SALT III negotiations. These proposal will respond to concerns expressed in the U.S. Senate regarding such issues as verification and future force reductions. They could take the form of joint declarations and treaty interpretations not requiring renegotiation of the existing treaty language. We strongly support the Helsinki process. The broadening of trade, as well as the expansion of scientific, technological, and cultural exchanges, is dependent upon practices by the Soviet and East European governments which are consistent with basic human rights standards. The establishment and maintenance of peace in the Middle East will be an urgent objective. A lasting settlement must encompass the principles affirmed in the Camp David accords. Our administration will support the recognition of Palestinian rights as embodied in the Camp David accords, but will oppose the creation of a Palestinian state between Israel and Jordan. The United States will not recognize or negotiate with the Palestine Liberation Organization unless that organization repudiates terrorism, explicitly recognizes Israel's right to exist in peace, and accepts UN Security Council Resolution 242 and 338 unchanged. The questions of Israeli settlements on the West Bank and the final status of East Jerusalem must be decided by negotiations. The United States will support free and unimpeded access to Jerusalem's holy places by people of all faiths. Jerusalem should remain an open and undivided city. At the conclusion of the peace making process and as a final act of settlement, we will recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and to move the U.S. Embassy there. In strengthening our diplomatic alliances, we will continue to build on our strong ties to Japan to enhance our security in the Pacific region. We will carefully nurture our new relationship with China. We believe that two basic principles should guide our policy toward Japan: a genuine American-Japanese partnership is fundamental to all else in the Pacific, and economic and security elements in the partnership cannot be separated. Japan is at once our military ally and our economic competitor. American-Japanese trade relations have been troubled by the large current trade imbalance, the impact of Japanese exports on the American automobile industry, and American difficulty in gaining access to Japan's domestic market. In resolving these issues, the Anderson-Lucey Administration would be guided by three propositions. First, decisions reached without full consultation and indifferent to Japanese concerns will be worse than no decision at all. Second, our bilateral economic relations are related to basic and far-reaching movements in the global economy. Third, both the United States and Japan must ensure that trade problems do not impair our security relations. Concerning China, we believe that those who blithely talk of playing the fabled "China card" do not understand the nature of the relationship. It is not in our interest to give China an "American card" for use in her relations with other East Asian countries or with the Soviet Union. From a renewed position of domestic and international strength, the Anderson-Lucey Administration would work to discourage antagonism between Russia and China. We should not become an arms supplier to China. We should work for better understanding by China's leaders of the consequences of nuclear war, of measures that should be taken to guard against accidental war, and of ways to make the nuclear balance more stable. Finally, our administration would abide by both the letter and spirit of the Taiwan Relations Act. We would maintain our contacts with Taiwan but would not establish official relations with its government. Elsewhere in the region, we would continue to support the security of Thailand. We would not normalize relations with Vietnam without real progress on outstanding issues. We reaffirm our commitment to defend South Korea against attack. In Latin America our diplomacy would promote U.S. ideals and interests, while respecting the sovereignty and independence of every nation in the hemisphere. There is no more important partner than Mexico. One of the most complex and difficult issues is the immigration of undocumented Mexican workers to the United States. We recognize that there is no easy solution to this problem. We would work with Mexico to improve the economic conditions of that country in order to diminish the basic causes of the migration. We will also propose a joint American/Mexican Commission to promote cooperative social development in the border region. An ongoing dialogue on issues such as trade, agriculture, energy, migration, finance, and industry is essential to forging the kind of partnership that should characterize our relations with Mexico in the 1980‘s and beyond. We will make clear that the United States will not tolerate direct military intervention by Cuba in Central America. There must be no Angolas in the Western Hemisphere. We will also oppose any attempt by the Cubans to lead the nonaligned movement into the Soviet camp. However,-we must not allow our concerns about Cuba to distort our policy toward other parts of the hemisphere. No amount of military aid can make a repressive government popular, and an unpopular government is never secure for long. The best antidote to Cuba's promotion of revolution is a region of sound, popular, democratic governments — not an armed camp of military dictators. Providing economic aid to Nicaragua serves that goal. It will ease the suffering of Nicaragua's poor and should promote an atmosphere of moderation within that country. In South Asia, the Anderson-Lucey Administration will make a major effort to open a wider window to India. We will support India's independent role in world affairs. We will maintain our commitments to other countries in the area. We will encourage both India and China to continue efforts to settle their boundary controversies. We will press for Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, where the gravest threat to regional stability now lies. We will promote stability in Africa by helping the nations of that continent achieve their social, political, and economic goals. We will: work toward majority rule in South Africa through negotiations in bilateral and multilateral forums. continue restrictions on Export-Import Bank restrictions on credit for investments in South Africa. encourage compliance with the United Nations embargo on the export of military equipment to South Africa. as circumstances warrant, and in cooperation with our allies, discourage investments in South Africa. Our administration will aggressively pursue a final agreement in Namibia based on UN Security Council Resolution 435 which has been accepted by both SWAPO and the South African government. We will cooperate with the developing nations in ways which respect their individuality and independence and which serve our mutual interests in trade and development. We will follow a carefully differentiated policy toward these countries working through both multilateral and bilateral arrangements. The fact that the North-South dialogue has deteriorated into a harangue by the so-called Group of 77 should not blind us to the necessity to work toward a more equitable international economic order. Our objective will be not one global bargain, but a workable global structure in which individuals, firms and nations can strike the countless bargains necessary to a productive international economy. And we will urge oil-exporting nations to take the lead in relieving the hardship drastic oil price increases inflict on less-developed countries. We have set forth a program for America. But that is not enough. Those who would form an Independent Administration should also explain how they could accomplish these tasks. We believe that, at this critical juncture, an Independent Administration with ties to both parties can work successfully with a two-party Congress to govern the United States. The two parties have not yet formulated a realistic post-New Deal public philosophy. They have found it exceedingly difficult to make the hard choices needed when government is obliged not to distribute the dividends of economic growth, but to allocate burdens and orchestrate sacrifices. And many of the key issues confronting this country now cross traditional party divisions. We believe that an Independent President can be effective. We acknowledge that the context within which Presidents must act has become more complicated and restrictive during the past two decades. Sober observers have pointed to the decentralization of Congress, the fragmentation of political parties, the rise of single-issue constituencies, and the atomization of the electorate as major elements of this new situation. But we contend that in 1980 an Anderson-Lucey Administration can deal with it more effectively than a party administration can. Victory by our ticket — in the teeth of enormous institutional biases against independents — would be a dramatic signal that the nation wants and expects action based on the consensus the campaign has articulated. Our campaign represents a coalition of the center — the traditional basis for governing the country. We are confident that Congress — which includes men and women of high civic dedication -- will work productively with any President who enjoys the trust of the American people. We hope to earn and hold that trust. The essence of presidential responsibility is to assert the general interest over narrow interests, to make difficult choices among worthy, but conflicting, objectives, to strike policy balances that are wise and fair enough to gain the support of Congress and the nation. No President can forecast in all respects the precise course he will follow on all issues. But it is incumbent on candidates who seek your vote to state their view of the country's needs and to identify those initiatives they expect to undertake -- to point a direction even when they cannot provide a full map. That we have attempted to do. Many distinguished Americans have contributed to the studies and position papers on which this program is based, but it is our own sketch of the priorities we believe should guide our country -- not a mosaic of bargains among special interests or trade-offs among experts. We seek a workable synthesis of policy and program, for the next administration must blend new ideas with old, innovative concepts with traditional values, proven approaches with tentative ones. In responding to the challenges we face, government must be frankly experimental in some fields, conventional in others. It must also be utterly ruthless in judging its performance and pruning its failures. These convictions will animate our administration. We speak for a patriotism greater than party. And we invite patriots of all persuasions to join with us in shaping a government that can shape the future. It won't be easy -- but it will be worth it.
