Americans look for several basic qualities in presidential candidates. Intelligence, for example, and honesty. The ability to command respect from other leaders at home and abroad. The courage that comes from having convictions and being willing to act on them. Eugene McCarthy, independent candidate, has shown these qualities throughout his political career. The late Sen. Wayne Morse said of McCarthy, “He has never trimmed his sails for expediency’s sake, nor abandoned a worthy cause just because it encountered hard going.” Gene McCarthy has another quality that is most important in a President. This is foresight—the ability to understand major problems and to deal with them before they become crises and go beyond control. It does not help very much to have someone in the White House who deals only with yesterday’s problems in yesterday’s terms. We need someone who can deal with today and tomorrow. There are many candidates around who can say, with the wisdom of hindsight, what went wrong ten or fifteen years ago. There are few who understood the problems at the time. And fewer still who knew what to do about them. McCarthy did. Look at his record. In 1965, long before it was a popular cause, McCarthy was the Senate’s principal sponsor of the Equal Rights Amendment. He said: “There was a hope by some that passage of the 19th amendment would result in general revision of laws and practices so that discrimination against women would end. Unfortunately, that has not been the case... The fact is that 45 years after the passage of the 19th amendment, discrimination against adult women continues in property rights, inheritance rights, the right to own and control one’s earnings, educational opportunity, employment opportunities, jury service, and other areas.” In reporting on the 1968 presidential campaign, Betty Friedan reported that McCarthy was the only major candidate who forthrightly supported the Equal Rights Amendment. Documents made public have proved that the FBI, under J. Edgar Hoover, had engaged in illegal wiretapping, breaking and entry, harassment and intimidation of political groups and a smear campaign against the late Martin Luther King. In 1968, when few politicians dared to criticize the FBI Director, McCarthy called for Hoover’s dismissal. In a 1968 interview, McCarthy noted that, even before reports of FBI wiretapping of Dr. King, “I had various questions about the FBI and about its Director, saying I thought he had really been there too long, and had developed a kind of autonomy; that if something was decided by the FBI, that point on, no one was to question it, as though he had separate authority, separate from the Executive Branch of government.” In 1954, when he was a young Representative, McCarthy realized that the CIA was not receiving proper supervision from Congress. He proposed a joint congressional committee on information, intelligence, and security. McCarthy pursued this idea throughout his career—and became more and more critical of CIA operations. Thus in 1964 he wrote: “Wrapped in its cloak of secrecy, the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency modestly hints it has overthrown foreign governments, admits that it violates international law and does not deny that one of its exploits wrecked a summit conference. The CIA, in short, is making foreign policy; and in doing so, is assuming the roles of the President and the Congress. It has taken on the character of an invisible government answering only to itself. This must stop... The responsibility for organizing and sustaining armed forces lies with Congress, not a supersecret intelligence agency... We do not permit other government operations, no matter how sensitive, to feed us only the information they think is good for us. The Central Intelligence Agency ought not to be privileged to do so.” In 1968, when most liberals still glorified presidential power, McCarthy called attention to abuses of that power. He criticized the general tendency to treat other agencies of government as extensions of the presidency. “At the root of this, I think, has been a tendency to regard the presidency as a personal office and the source of all legitimate authority in government. A President should not speak of ‘my cabinet,’ ‘my Ambassador to the UN,’ ‘my Vice President,’ or even ‘my Congress.’ The attention we fix upon the office is dangerous and disproportionate. The significance attached to the smallest presidential action reinforces the view that the office belongs to a man, and not the people. And the man, in turn, tends to regard other responsible officials of government as courtiers rather than independent public servants. Thus, the entire mood and disposition of the nation [are] largely subject to the daily fortunes of a single individual. Slowly, traditional checks and balances are bypassed or disregarded, and in turn, the people lose a sense of their own power and confidence in their capacity to exercise it.” Six years later, columnist James J. Kilpatrick wrote: “Long before Arthur Schlesinger discovered the ‘imperial presidency’ and long before Richard Nixon sank in the swamp of Watergate, McCarthy was warning against the excesses of presidential power. McCarthy is a practicing liberal. He wears his positions well. It is not a popular liberal position. It happened merely to be sound.” In 1967–68, despite warnings that it would ruin his political career, McCarthy challenged President Lyndon Johnson on the war in Vietnam. McCarthy described the Vietnam venture as: “a war of questionable legality and questionable constitutionality, a war which is diplomatically indefensible... a war which cannot be defended in the context of the judgment of history... a war which is not defensible even in military terms... Finally, it is a war which is morally wrong.” Sen. Yarborough of Texas later said:“ I honor the Senator from Minnesota for the courage he has shown. Many joined him later, but he had the courage to be the first voice... He was someone speaking on the side of justice and right and people listened.” Another Senator, Frank Church, said of McCarthy’s leadership in ’68: “Largely because of that singular and courageous act of faith, the American people... have drawn back their elected leaders from the abyss of Vietnam. For this, Eugene McCarthy deserves a larger measure of credit than any other American.” “We have agreements not to deploy nuclear bombs in outer space, in Antarctica, or on the ocean floor. It would be far better to have agreements not to explode them in places people live — such as Seattle and Vladivostok, Chicago and Leningrad, Philadelphia and Kiev, New York and Moscow. The November 1974 agreement between the United States and Russia, instead of halting the arms race, set high ceilings on nuclear arms and thus guaranteed production of more and missiles. The agreement was made shortly after it was reported that the United States had a stockpile of nuclear weapons equivalent to 615,380 bombs like the one dropped on Hiroshima. The destructive power of these weapons is so great that few people can even conceive of it.” “We haven’t made a significant change in our wage/hour laws since the nineteen-thirties or early nineteen-forties. We have had forty years of technological change, but we cling to the eight-hour day and the forty-hour week as the standard. If we are going to do anything about the 6 million people out of work, we will have to redistribute employment. It could be done by going to a four-day week, or a shorter month.” “We should have limited and conditional wage/price controls. We should have selective credit controls... We should have selective excise taxes to discourage wasteful production and consumption... we should eliminate unnecessary expenditures in the military budget... We should reduce spending in some other areas, such as the space program and the highway-building program. We must eliminate waste in the nongovernmental economy. This means, particularly, action against the waste and harm which the automobile as an institution causes in our economy and in our culture.” “And we are not really suffering from an energy crisis in this country. We still have more energy than we know what to do with, and we are overconsuming what we have.” “We look back on the age of the dinosaur and say that the dinosaur was a very stupid animal because it consumed its own environment... But we have invented the automobile and, in effect, are allowing it to consume our environment.” “Recent reports on abuses of power by the CIA, the FBI, and the IRS should not come as a surprise to anyone who has observed those agencies closely over the years... There have been many proposals for new laws to end all abuses. We already have too many laws. The real need is to have a President who will say, ‘I will honor the Constitution and my oath of office. I will protect the political rights of all Americans.’”
